_tools/2022-gnu-tools.md, before:

---
title: "My config files for some gnu tools such as emacs, vim, etc"
collection: tools
type: "Tool"
permalink: /tools/2022-gnu-tools
venue: "github.com/winterNan/config-gnu-tools"
date: 2022-08-01
location: "Stockholm, Sweden"
---

GNU Tools Configuration Archive

Welcome to my personal collection of GNU tools configurations! 🎉 Over the years, I have fine-tuned my setup to enhance productivity and efficiency, and I believe it's time to share it. This repository will be updated periodically as I recall and refine more configurations.

## 🔧 What’s Included?
Currently, you will find configurations for:
- **Emacs** – My customized setup for a smooth and efficient editing experience.
- **Vim** – Tweaks and settings that make Vim work just the way I like it.
- **i3** – A tiling window manager configuration optimized for workflow efficiency.

More configurations will be added over time as I document and clean up my setups.

## ⚠️ Disclaimer
Configuration is a deeply personal thing. What works for me may not work for you. Instead of expecting a one-size-fits-all setup, consider these configurations as inspiration to tailor your own environment.

## 📌 How to Use?
Simply clone the repository and explore the configurations:

`sh
git clone https://github.com/winterNan/config-gnu-tools.git
`

Then put the files to their responsible places

Commit message:

added whisper. some minor changes

_tools/2022-gnu-tools.md, after:

---
title: "My config files for some gnu tools such as emacs, vim, etc"
collection: tools
type: "Tool"
permalink: /tools/2022-gnu-tools
venue: "github.com/winterNan/config-gnu-tools"
date: 2022-08-01
location: "Stockholm, Sweden"
---

Some of my personal configurations for some of my personal favoriate GNU Tools

[Github link for the project](https://github.com/winterNan/config-gnu-tools)

Welcome to my personal collection of GNU tools configurations! 🎉 Over the years, I have fine-tuned my setup to enhance productivity and efficiency, and I believe it's time to share it. This repository will be updated periodically as I recall and refine more configurations.

## 🔧 What’s Included?
Currently, you will find configurations for:
- **Emacs** – My customized setup for a smooth and efficient editing experience.
- **Vim** – Tweaks and settings that make Vim work just the way I like it.
- **i3** – A tiling window manager configuration optimized for workflow efficiency.

More configurations will be added over time as I document and clean up my setups.

## ⚠️ Disclaimer
Configuration is a deeply personal thing. What works for me may not work for you. Instead of expecting a one-size-fits-all setup, consider these configurations as inspiration to tailor your own environment.

## 📌 How to Use?
Simply clone the repository and explore the configurations:

`sh
git clone https://github.com/winterNan/config-gnu-tools.git
`

Then put the files to their responsible places
