---
title: "Marginal Performance: Formalizing and Quantifying Power Over/Under Provisioning in NoC DVFS"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2017-ppcc
excerpt: 'Energy efficiency;Power demand;Measurement;Benchmark testing;Energy efficiency;Network-on-chip;Program processors;Performance evaluation;power efficiency;DVFS;network-on-chip (NoC);CMP <br><b>Top transaction publication-TC</b>'
date: 2017-06-13
venue: 'IEEE Transactions on Computers (Volume: 66, Issue: 11, 01 November 2017) '
slidesurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7947135'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7947135'
citation: 'Z. Lu and <b>Y. Yao</b>, "Marginal Performance: Formalizing and Quantifying Power Over/Under Provisioning in NoC DVFS," in IEEE Transactions on Computers, vol. 66, no. 11, pp. 1903-1917, 1 Nov. 2017, doi: 10.1109/TC.2017.2715018.'
---
In network-on-chip (NoC) based CMPs, DVFS is commonly used to co-optimize performance and power. To achieve optimal efficiency, it is important to gain proportional performance growth with power. However, power over/under provisioning often exists. To properly evaluate and guide NoC DVFS techniques, it is highly desirable to formalize and quantify power over/under provisioning. In this paper, we first show that application performance does not grow linearly with network power in an NoC-based CMP. Instead, their relationship is non-linear and can be captured using performance-power characteristics curve (PPCC) with three distinct regions: an inertial region, a linear region, and a saturation region. We note that conventional DVFS metrics such as Performance Per Watt (PPW) cannot accurately evaluate such non-linear relationship. Based on PPCC, we propose a new figure of merit called Marginal Performance (MP) which evaluates the incremental performance per power increment after the inertial region. The MP concept enables to formally define power overand under-provisioning with reference to the linear region in which an efficient NoC DVFS should operate. Applying the PPCC and MP concepts in full-system simulations with PARSEC and SPEC OMP2012 benchmarks, we are able to identify power over/under provisioning occurrences, measure and compare their statistics in two latest NoC DVFS techniques. Moreover, we show evidences that MP can accurately and consistently evaluate the NoC DVFS techniques, avoiding the misjudgement and inconsistency of PPW-based evaluations.
